- [Instructor] So now we're going to talk
a little bit about externalized configuration
in a cloud native space.
The first question that may come to your mind is
why would I ever externalize our configuration?
The first and probably the most prevalent reason
is because the 12-factor methodologies
specifically state that configuration
should be externalized.
Another reasoning behind this and why it's more important
than just that they say it,
is that it becomes more and more clear
as you start working in this space
how powerful externalized configurations are.
But for the moment, just accept that because it says it
that's why we want to do it.
Now one of the main reasons that we want to do this
is because it increases the portability of your application.
Because, if it can be fed all of its configured startup,
it's not tied to a specific data center or instance.
But it also makes your application more scalable
because I can drop it onto Cloud Foundry
or Kubernetes Container, a Cloud VM,
or even a local VM, or a big iron server,
as long as I'm providing that config,
it doesn't really matter where the server or VM,
or docker container, or whatever,
is actually located.
It also removes the need for an environment variables
when dealing with external config.
Now a purist of the 12-factor methodology,
let's say the environment variables are the specific way
that you handle externalized configuration.
This portability not only applies to deployments
but it also applies to environments.
You can use the same code in every environment
and only modify the externalized config.
In addition, you can scale out new instances
of applications using the same configuration
from the externalized host without having
to reconfigure another instance.
Well in the Spring world, it's not necessarily a requirement
that we use environmental variables.
And now we're going to talk a little bit about that.
So Spring's implementation specifically leverages
what they call config server.
Config server is backed by a git repository,
so you can apply source control
to your configuration values.
This can extend across environments as well,
which increases the power of the configuration.
You can use patterns like git flow
to manage and stage configuration
across multiple environments.
Additionally, config server gives
a centralized management point
of all of our configuration variables.
As opposed to each container specifically
having to have its own environment variables,
we have one central place that we can distribute it
to all of our applications running within that data center.
Now a little bit about the Spring
cloud config server itself.
It's actually a very simple Spring boot starter project.
As a matter of fact, all you have to do is go
and to find the project with the appropriate dependency,
tie it to a git repo, and you're really done.
You can load the config on start up of any other app
because it gets served via the REST endpoint.
An additional benefit, with the fact that it's backed
by git, is that you have support for branches.
And because Spring config server allows you to use
YAML files, you also have the benefit of Spring profiles.
So now I can have a different profile
for each data center and a different instance
of config server for each branch,
or all of them in one config server, separated by branches.
And then, I have the ability to deploy
through a centralized git repository to a very large number
of config server instances per data center.
And that really allows you a lot of flexibility
while still having management over your config itself.
Now I briefly alluded to it a moment ago
about how to consume this config.
Indeed, it is actually available through a REST API call,
which is one way that you could get it.
But, more importantly for a Spring user
is that Spring has given us a starter project
for actually becoming a client of the config server.
One of the benefits of using that client
is that it allows us to bootstrap to that config server
and get our config at the appropriate point
of the bean lifecycle, so that those environment variables,
that config, those properties,
are actually injected into our application
at the current time for bean post processing to occur.